More Technical Explanation- Design Tour of OBSM: Our (Current) Black Student Movement 

Discusses, technically, 
- how you implemented your project 
- why you made the design decisions you did.

Your design document should be at least several paragraphs in length. 
Whereas your documentation is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your design 
document your opportunity to give the staff a technical tour of your project underneath its hood.


Backend/ Databases/ Tables:
    I heavily used phpMyAdmin to store and retreive almost all of the content for OBSM.
    -'Schools' & 'Users':
        The first table I created was "users", that would give each user a row including their unique id, first and
        last name, school, hash password, grade, and email. Similar to CS50 finance, I decided to make the email the 
        unique key (like the username for pset7). However, I needed a way to ensure that the emails used to register 
        were actually of students. Therefore, I found a json file of every univeristy's domain name and converted it into
        a csv file. With that, I learned how to upload the csv file into phpMyAdmin, in order to have another table, "schools",
        where I could cross-check the domain names with the emails users signed up with. I chose this route, beacuse adding
        a .edu is not safe enough, but I also didn't want to spam people's emails. Also, this way ensures that everytype of school
        email is included and I won't wrongly assume that the domain name is just the school name (i.e. Georgia Tech emails end
        in @gatech, not @georgiatech). This way also provided me with a list of every single university that I easily query for
        future use.
        
        Once I had the users and schools tables setup, I realized that I could verfiy the school the user typed in upon registration
        with the database, so that when I want to pull things based off of users' schools, they are uniform. After setting up the 
        backend for login and register, I used the CS50 Finance Pset7 as a template to begin my website.
        
    -'Uploads':
        Because my website is based almost entirely on user content, I needed to then setup the database and tables for what the
        uploads would looklike in order to setup features where I would be pulling from that table. Therefore, I created a table
        called 'uploads' where I could upload files directly into phpMyAdmin from my computer. However, I realized that this wasn't
        the most size and time efficient method. However, although I have the "unused" uploads table in phpMyAdmin, in the future, with more time, I'd like
        continue working on adding local files to my website and into the database; but for now, I abandoned this to work on other
        features. (Hence, my note at the top of "Contribtue.php") In the contribtue file, I was able to successfully find local files and
        send them to the database; however, I stopped when I had trouble downloading them back down. That is when I realizd that using
        files already online and their URLS would be much easier.
        
    -'Upload'
        The Upload table is my officil table for when users' add posts to the website. I knew that I wanted to have features where I could
        pull information by school, by name, by category, and potentially by year; therefore I was meticulous about the columns for this table.
        The two keys I made unique to each other were the timestamp and the user_id (person who posted) because it'd be impossible for one person
        to post more than 1 thing at the same exact time. Therefore, if I wanted to pull posts individually I could do so by those two. 
    
 
Posts & Contribute:      
    OBSM is meant to be a space for students' voices to be heard. Therefore, I knew I needed a way to orgranize and categorize what
    was posted well so I could filter easily. I realized that with everything happening on campuses, students want to see what's happening
    now, nearby, and similarly. I also thought about how people would interact with the site and what sorts of things would be
    posted. I then came across the jquery timeline library ("http://www.jqueryrain.com/?8JZJrFMi"). I realized that I easily
    could organize posts by time like in a timeline and categorize the type of post it is (fun thing for healing, annoucement like,
    a book or class suggestion). Organizign this way also leaves room for me to add new categories of posting without disrupting 
    the current content.

    Given the 4 different ways to post, that made it easy to create 4 different forms that could be submitted into my 'upload'
    table (i.e. "addbook, addclass, addevent, addsoul" .php). Each php file checks the data from its corresponding html form via $_POST
    to make sure the required fields that I'd need to eventually pull for specific features were filled out, then inserts into 
    the database. When inserting the posts' data from each form, I was able to link each post to the user table by querying the
    $_SESSION["id"]. Once I figured out the backend logistics of how to store and retrieve each post, I was ready to figure out
    how to display them.
    
Personalized Pages & Resuing "souls_view.php":
    Once you enter and log into the site, you are greeted with a welcome with your name. After coding that, I realized that 
    I could pass in the array of the current users' information and have the school, which would allow me to query for all
    posts from their school. Therefore, the "index.php" file queries for the user info and renders the  "home.php" file which will
    display the filtered timeline. However, I realized that I had already coded the dynamic timeline in a different view file
    ("souls_view.php"), and it didn't make sense to rewrite it just so that when I rendered the view page it wouldn't print the header twice.
    
    Therefore, I created the fxn renderhome(); that would do the same thing as render(), accept leave out the header, so that 
    on my home screen, underneath the header, I could still render the same timeline template.
    
Coding the Timeline View for the first time "soul.php" & "souls_view.php":
    If you click on the "Gives Me Life" tab from the Nav Bar, you will see a variety of posts all from the "Feed Our Souls" category. 
    These posts come from every student from any school registered that has posted something in this category (aka queries
    from upload all posts with category "feedsoul").
    
    -Using the jquery timeline library ("http://www.jqueryrain.com/?8JZJrFMi")
    When I first found this timeline I was super excited because it was exactly what I was looking for. However, when I looked
    at the source code, I realized that each "event/post" was hard-coded with html. I had to come up with a system of reusing
    the tags in their code, but re-writing all of the html content (i.e. event title, img="src", date, etc) with php variables
    so that I could pull them dynamically from the database.
    
        -"soul.php" queries for the content that will be placed into the timeline (select * from upload where X), because
        this spits back a table of filterd uploads, I could use "souls_view.php" to go thru each upload and create a 
        "timeline.row" (a new post/event). I could also check which category and what content to display based on my query
        into upload.
        
    -I then realized that most of my pages required that php timeline skelton but just with different filtered queries going
    into it, therefore, I reuse the "souls_view.php" for all timelines (i.e. mymoves by passing in just my session_id, all_schools
    by having the user query for one school, and the user's school as I talk about above.) 

Displaying the Posts/Timelines
    -because I wanted them to post most recent first, in "souls_view.php" I reverse the table order.
    
    CSS: Because the Timeline library I found has such an extensive CSS stylesheet, I copied most of it over and just
    renamed most of my styling that I already had that overlapped.
    
    Javascript: I was able to copy and paste directly the js from the given library into my js file.
    


FILES TO IGNORE: "imgupload.php" this file corresponds with the 'uploads' table that I don't acutally use yet because I decided
it was easier to just use media urls and worry about local content in the future. 

Sources:

Gathered all of the schools from this github:
-https://github.com/Hipo/university-domains-list/blob/master/world_universities_and_domains.json
Timeline Feature idea:
-http://www.jqueryrain.com/?8JZJrFMi
-w3schools

